pip-template.md, before:

---
title: <The PIP title is a few words, not a complete sentence>
description: <Description is one full (short) sentence>
author: <a comma separated list of the author's or authors' name + GitHub username (in parenthesis), or name and email (in angle brackets).  Example, FirstName LastName (@GitHubUsername), FirstName LastName <foo@bar.com>, FirstName (@GitHubUsername) and GitHubUsername (@GitHubUsername)>
discussions-to: <URL>
status: Draft
type: <Standard, Meta, or Informational>
created: <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>
requires: <PIP number(s)> # Only required when you reference an PIP in the `Specification` section. Otherwise, remove this field, example: 2,3 or 2.
---

<!--
  READ PIP-1 (https://pips.pactus.org/PIPS/pip-1) BEFORE USING THIS TEMPLATE!

  This is the suggested template for new PIPs.
  After you have filled in the requisite fields, please delete these comments.
  The title should be 44 characters or less. It should not repeat the PIP number in title.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Abstract

<!--
  The Abstract is a multi-sentence (short paragraph) technical summary.
  This should be a very terse and human-readable version of the specification section.
  Someone should be able to read only the abstract to get the gist of what this specification does.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Motivation

<!--
  This section is optional.

  The motivation section should include a description of any nontrivial problems the PIP solves.
  It should not describe how the PIP solves those problems, unless it is not immediately obvious.
  It should not describe why the PIP should be made into a standard, unless it is not immediately obvious.

  With a few exceptions, external links are not allowed.
  If you feel that a particular resource would demonstrate a compelling case for your PIP,
  then save it as a printer-friendly PDF, put it in the assets folder, and link to that copy.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Specification

<!--
  The Specification section should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature.
  The specification should be detailed enough to allow competing,
  interoperable implementations for any of the current Pactus platforms.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Backwards Compatibility

<!--

  This section is optional.

  All PIPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity.
  The PIP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities.
  PIP submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.

  The current placeholder is acceptable for a draft.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

No backward compatibility issues found.

## Test Cases

<!--
  This section is optional.

  The Test Cases section should include expected input/output pairs, but may include a succinct set of executable tests.
  It should not include project build files.
  No new requirements may be be introduced here (meaning an implementation following only the Specification section should pass all tests here.)
  If the test suite is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/pip-####/`.
  External links will not be allowed

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Reference Implementation

<!--
  This section is optional.

  The Reference Implementation section should include a minimal implementation that assists in understanding or implementing this specification.
  It should not include project build files.
  The reference implementation is not a replacement for the Specification section, and the proposal should still be understandable without it.
  If the reference implementation is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/pip-####/`. External links will not be allowed.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Security Considerations

<!--
  All PIPs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change.
  Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal.
  For example, include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed.
  PIP submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected.
  A PIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.

  The current placeholder is acceptable for a draft.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

Commit message:

add category to PIP template (#133)

pip-template.md, after:

---
title: <The PIP title is a few words, not a complete sentence>
description: <Description is one full (short) sentence>
author: <a comma separated list of the author's or authors' name + GitHub username (in parenthesis), or name and email (in angle brackets).  Example, FirstName LastName (@GitHubUsername), FirstName LastName <foo@bar.com>, FirstName (@GitHubUsername) and GitHubUsername (@GitHubUsername)>
discussions-to: <URL>
status: Draft
type: <Standard, Meta, or Informational>
category: <Core, Network, Interface> # Only required for Standards Track. Otherwise, remove this field.
created: <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>
requires: <PIP number(s)> # Only required when you reference an PIP in the `Specification` section. Otherwise, remove this field, example: 2,3 or 2.
---

<!--
  READ PIP-1 (https://pips.pactus.org/PIPS/pip-1) BEFORE USING THIS TEMPLATE!

  This is the suggested template for new PIPs.
  After you have filled in the requisite fields, please delete these comments.
  The title should be 44 characters or less. It should not repeat the PIP number in title.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Abstract

<!--
  The Abstract is a multi-sentence (short paragraph) technical summary.
  This should be a very terse and human-readable version of the specification section.
  Someone should be able to read only the abstract to get the gist of what this specification does.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Motivation

<!--
  This section is optional.

  The motivation section should include a description of any nontrivial problems the PIP solves.
  It should not describe how the PIP solves those problems, unless it is not immediately obvious.
  It should not describe why the PIP should be made into a standard, unless it is not immediately obvious.

  With a few exceptions, external links are not allowed.
  If you feel that a particular resource would demonstrate a compelling case for your PIP,
  then save it as a printer-friendly PDF, put it in the assets folder, and link to that copy.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Specification

<!--
  The Specification section should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature.
  The specification should be detailed enough to allow competing,
  interoperable implementations for any of the current Pactus platforms.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Backwards Compatibility

<!--

  This section is optional.

  All PIPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity.
  The PIP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities.
  PIP submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.

  The current placeholder is acceptable for a draft.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

No backward compatibility issues found.

## Test Cases

<!--
  This section is optional.

  The Test Cases section should include expected input/output pairs, but may include a succinct set of executable tests.
  It should not include project build files.
  No new requirements may be be introduced here (meaning an implementation following only the Specification section should pass all tests here.)
  If the test suite is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/pip-####/`.
  External links will not be allowed

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Reference Implementation

<!--
  This section is optional.

  The Reference Implementation section should include a minimal implementation that assists in understanding or implementing this specification.
  It should not include project build files.
  The reference implementation is not a replacement for the Specification section, and the proposal should still be understandable without it.
  If the reference implementation is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/pip-####/`. External links will not be allowed.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Security Considerations

<!--
  All PIPs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change.
  Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal.
  For example, include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed.
  PIP submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected.
  A PIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.

  The current placeholder is acceptable for a draft.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->
