---
title: Removing sequence field from transactions
author: Mostafa Sedaghat Joo (@b00f)
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2023-08-23
---

## Abstract

This document propose to remove the `Sequence` field from the transactions.

## Motivation

The `Sequence` in Pactus is similar to the `nonce` in Ethereum.
It stops replay attacks by increasing the sequence number in the sender's account when a transaction is confirmed.
If the same transaction is replayed, it can be detected and rejected.
However, the sequence field makes it hard to implement the scheduled transactions.

This document proposes to remove the sequence field from transactions without compromising security.

## Specification

To detect a replayed transaction, we can check if it has been confirmed before.
This involves looking up confirmed transactions and checking for any with the same hash.
If a matching transaction is found, it means the transaction is replayed and can be rejected.

To ensure unique hashes for all transactions, relying solely on random stamp data is not enough.
According to the Birthday Paradox [^1], a 32-bit hash has a more than 50% chance of collision after 80,000 blocks.
A simple solution is to make the `LockTime` field mandatory for all transactions.
The `LockTime` value should match the block number referenced by the Stamp.

### Light client implementation

A light client doesn't need to store the entire blockchain history.
Since Pactus transactions have a limited lifespan, the light client can avoid keeping all transaction records.
For example, with the current consensus parameters, the number of transactions in a single day is sufficient to detect replay attacks.

## Security Considerations

<!--
  All PIPs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal. For example, include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed. PIP submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected. An PIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.

  The current placeholder is acceptable for a draft.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

Needs discussion.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).

## References

[^1]: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Birthday_attack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Birthday_attack)
