PIPs/pip-16.md, before:

---
title: Adding events in Pactus transactions
author: Kayhan Alizadeh <kehiiiiya@gmail.com>
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2023-12-17
---

## Abstract

This document proposes adding an event section in contract call transactions, that can be emitted by contracts. to be consumed by other services or other on-chain codes.

## Motivation

The motivation behind this proposal is to enhance the functionality of the Pactus blockchain by allowing contracts to emit events within transactions. This feature provides the ability to notify external systems or other on-chain contracts about state changes or activities occurring within the blockchain.

## Specification

The Specification section below describes the syntax and semantics of the proposed feature.

### Syntax

The event section MUST be added as a new field in contract call transactions payload. The syntax for this section is as follows:

```go
type Event struct {
  Name   string
  Data   map[string][32]byte
}

type Payload interface {
  // other methods.
	Events() []Event
}
```

The Events filed which is a list of Events will be added to transaction payload. each event MUST contain a name with fixed length as memo and a map of string (which is also fixed length as memo) pointing to a 32 byte data.

### Semantics

The event section in transactions allows contracts to emit events with associated data. Events are identified by their name, and the data field holds the event-specific information. emitting event MUST affect and increase the gas of contract call.

The event section is OPTIONAL, and if no events are emitted by the contract during a transaction, the field can be omitted.

### Interface Examples

Here are sample code snippets showcasing how one can interact with the event section using Pactus interfaces:

```rust
mod MyContract {
    #[event]
    struct TransferEvent {
        from: String,
        to: String,
        amount: u8,
    }
}
```

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

Commit message:

using derive macro for event example

PIPs/pip-16.md, after:

---
title: Adding events in Pactus transactions
author: Kayhan Alizadeh <kehiiiiya@gmail.com>
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2023-12-17
---

## Abstract

This document proposes adding an event section in contract call transactions, that can be emitted by contracts. to be consumed by other services or other on-chain codes.

## Motivation

The motivation behind this proposal is to enhance the functionality of the Pactus blockchain by allowing contracts to emit events within transactions. This feature provides the ability to notify external systems or other on-chain contracts about state changes or activities occurring within the blockchain.

## Specification

The Specification section below describes the syntax and semantics of the proposed feature.

### Syntax

The event section MUST be added as a new field in contract call transactions payload. The syntax for this section is as follows:

```go
type Event struct {
  Name   string
  Data   map[string][32]byte
}

type Payload interface {
  // other methods.
	Events() []Event
}
```

The Events filed which is a list of Events will be added to transaction payload. each event MUST contain a name with fixed length as memo and a map of string (which is also fixed length as memo) pointing to a 32 byte data.

### Semantics

The event section in transactions allows contracts to emit events with associated data. Events are identified by their name, and the data field holds the event-specific information. emitting event MUST affect and increase the gas of contract call.

The event section is OPTIONAL, and if no events are emitted by the contract during a transaction, the field can be omitted.

### Interface Examples

Here are sample code snippets showcasing how one can interact with the event section using Pactus interfaces:

```rust
mod MyContract {
  #[derive(kelk_event)]
    struct TransferEvent {
      from: String,
        to: String,
        amount: u8,
    }
}
```

`kelk_event` trait MUST contain an emit function.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.
